SPPARKS example problems

Each of these sub-directories contains a sample problem you can run
with SPPARKS.  They should all run quickly in a few seconds on a
desktop machine.  Each problem has an input script (in.*) and produces
a log file (log.*).  Some produce dump files (dump.*) when they run.

Some of the input files have various options commented out.  But
uncommenting them, you can experiment with different lattices and
sweepers and solvers.

A few sample log file outputs on different machines and different
numbers of processors are included in the directories to compare your
answers to.  E.g. a log file like log.potts.date.foo.P means it ran on
P processors of machine "foo" with the dated version of SPPARKS.  Note
that these problems should get statistically similar answers when run
on different machines or different numbers of processors, but not
identical answers to those in the log of dump files included here.

These are the sample problems in the various sub-directories:

chemistry:  simple A + B <-> C reaction model
erbium:     erbium reaction/diffusion model
groups:     test of tree and group KMC solvers on a reaction network
ising:      2d Ising model
membrane:   2d membrane model of lipid, fluid, protein states
potts:      3d Potts model
relax:      2d Metropolis atomic relaxation

Here is how you might run and visualize one of the sample problems:

cd ising
cp ../../src/spk_linux .           # copy SPPARKS executable to this dir
spk_linux < in.ising               # run the problem

Running the simulation produces the files dump.ising and log.spparks.

The dump files produced by the example runs can be animated using the
xmovie tool distributed with the LAMMPS molecular dynamics package:
lammps.sandia.gov.  Or with other molecular dynamics visualizers.

You can visualize the dump file with the xmovie as follows:

xmovie -scale dump.ising

Our group has written and released a separate toolkit called Pizza.py
which provides tools which may be useful for setup, analysis,
plotting, and visualization of SPPARKS simulations.  Pizza.py is
written in Python and is available for download from the Pizza.py WWW
site at www.cs.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/pizza.html.

Animated versions of the dump files produced by these examples can be
viewed on the SPPARKS WWW site.

If you add dump image line(s) to the input script a series of JPG
images will be produced by the run.  These can be viewed individually
or turned into a movie or animated by tools like ImageMagick or
QuickTime or various Windows-based tools.  See the dump image doc page
for more details.  E.g. this Imagemagick command would create a GIF
file suitable for viewing in a browser.

% convert -loop 1 *.jpg foo.gif

------------------------------------------

Upper-case directories

The COUPLE directory has examples of how to use SPPARKS as a library,
either by itself or in tandem with another code or library.  See the
COUPLE/README file to get started.
